# Welcome to the Redux General Store!

We all love redux, sure, but everyone knows it has one tiny flaw, which is the
amount of boilerplate necessary to get the redux store up and running. Well no
more!

The Redux General Store generalizes thunks and reducers so that one set of
thunks can serve any model, and reducers are generated for each model
on-the-fly. The trade-off is more opinionation: you must specify which model and
route to use when calling the thunk.

For example:

    getUsers()

becomes:

    genericGet('/api/', 'users')

In this example , both strings passed in should be substituted with constants to
guard against typo bugs. That turns it into:

    genericGet(api, users)

See? It is slightly more 'wordy' than the original line, but in exchange for
typing few more characters, you get a redux store that is about 10 lines of code
and doesn't get larger with more models. Adding a new slice of data to your
store is as easy as adding the name of the model to the 'models' array (or using
the `generateReducer` function provided) and that's it.

The General Store does not prevent you from adding thunks or reducers in the
traditional way. You can even use the CRUD suite from the General Store and make
a new reducer for that one thunk the General Store doesn't provide!

A small React application using The General General Store (with a LOT of
comments explaining its use) can be found here:
https://github.com/LLLisa/RGSTest <--check out that redux store!

!important: This is not intended as a complete replacement for all redux
functionality. For instance, the thunks provided by the general store can only
GET all instances of a model. It does not GET all instances WHERE a condition is
met (well, it can, but you probably shouldn't bother). Also, no consideration is
given to security here. You are expected to take care of these sorts of
situations in your REST API routes and/or by building your own thunks and
reducers to cover them.

The Redux General Store is intended for general, non-secure CRUD operations
between your frontend and your API. It does not prevent you from adding thunks
or reducers in the traditional way. You can even use the CRUD suite from the
General Store and make a new reducer for that one thunk the General Store
doesn't provide!

So let's get started!

# Getting Started

First, do the old

    $ npm install redux-general-store --save-dev

Then, in your redux store/index file:

    import GeneralStore from 'redux-general-store'

What you have just imported is the GeneralStore class. Create an instance of it
and pass in the base URL of your API as the first argument, and an array
containing the names of your data models as the second argument. It will look
something like this:

    export const GS = new GeneralStore('http://localhost:42069', [ 'users', 'accounts', 'files', ]);

You can put the export statement elsewhere if you wish. When the GS object is
created, it will automatically construct reducers for each of the models passed
in the second argument.

# The GS Object

## Properties

The GS object is returned when you create an instance of the GeneralStore class
using the `new` keyword. It has three properties:

- `GS.baseUrl`

(String) This is the base url to your api. Something like
`http://localhost:42069` or `www.fsf.org` or something. The rest of the api
route (pun intended) will be appended to this url.

- `GS.models`

(Array) This is the array of models you passed in when the GS object was
created. This is used to create reducers for each model and is useful wherever
you need a list of all of the models handled by The Redux General Store.

- `GS.reducerBody`

(Object) This is where things start getting good. This object contains all of
the reducers generated when the GS object is created. This is passed directly
into the redux `combineReducers` function like so:

    const reducer = combineReducers({ GS.reducerBody})

If adding more reducers besides the ones generated by the GS object, use the
spread operator like so:

```
const reducer = combineReducers({
  /**place non-general reducers here */ ...GS.reducerBody,
});
```

## CRUD Methods

There are 4 CRUD methods on the GS object:

- `GS.genericGet(route, model)`

This method is will attempt to use an HTTP GET route on a model (or table or
slice), returning all rows from the specified table. It expects to receive an
array as a response. Api route urls typically look something like this:

    http://localhost:42069/api/users

This is what is constructed when `genericGet` is called: The baseUrl is the one
passed in when the GS object is created, the api route (`/api`) and the model
(`users`) are passed in when calling the method. The route is then constructed
like this:

    ${this.baseUrl}${route}/${model}

The model argument is kept separate from the rest of the url here because it is
also used to dispatch the result of the api call to the reducer for that model.
Neat!

- `GS.genericPost(route, model, data)`

This method will attempt to add a row (or instance) to a database table using an
HTTP POST route and expects to receive the created item as a response. The route
and model arguments are the same as in the previous method, and the data object
here must be an object. It should look something like this:

```
  {
    firstName: 'Homer',
    lastName: 'Simpson',
    email: 'chunkylover53@aol.com'
  }
```

The data is intended to be inserted into the proper table with the column names
matching the keys on the data object. Server-side and database validation errors
are not handled by The Redux General Store and should be processed separately.

- `GS.genericPut(route, model, data, identifier(optional))`

This method will attempt to send an HTTP PUT request to the server with the
intention of updating a particular row in a database and expects to receive the
updated item as a response. The route and model arguments are the same as in the
previous methods, but if the optional identifier argument is provided, the data
object only needs to contain the data to update on the intended row. The
identifier argument is an object used to identify which row in the database to
update. For example:

```
GS.genericPut(api, users, { jobTitle: Snow Plow Driver }, { firstName:Homer })
```

The api route handler should be configured find the proper row by using the
identifier object as a search parameter and update the information accordingly,
like this:

```
/*try-catch omitted for brevity*/

app.put('/api/users', async (req, res, next) => {
  const userToUpdate = await User.findAll({
    where: {
      firstName: req.body.identifier
    }
  })
  const response = await userToUpdate.update(req.body.data)
  res.send(response)
}
```

However, an easier way to do this is to simply pass the entire updated data
object like so:

```
GS.genericPut(api, users, updatedData)
```

or

```
GS.genericPut(api, users, { ...selectedUser, ...newInfo })
```

If an identifier argument is not provided, the genericPut method will look on
the data object for a property called 'id' and use that as an identifier. The
api route handler can use this to find the proper row using the id property as
the primary key. The `req.body` generated by this method will always be an
object in the shape of `req.body: {data, identifier}`

- `GS.genericDelete(route, model, identifier)`

This one is just like it says on the tin. It will attempt to send an HTTP DELETE
request to the provided url and expects to receive the deleted item as a
response. The identifier argument (usually the primary key) should be an object
in this form:

    { id:4 }

or

    { lastName: 'Smithers' }

If something other than the primary key is used as an identifier, make sure to
reflect that in your api route handler.

That's it for the CRUD methods!

## Additional Methods

There are two utility methods on the GS object. It is probably best to ignore
them both, but there may be use cases for them, so here ya go:

- `GS.generateReducer(model)`

This method returns a reducer function with Get, Post, Put, and Delete
functionality for the specified model. It looks like this:

```
generateReducer = (model) => {
    return (state = [], action) => {
      if (action.type === `GET_${model}`) return action.payload;
      if (action.type === `POST_${model}`) return [...state, action.payload];
      if (action.type === `PUT_${model}`) return state.map((x) => x.id === action.payload.id ? action.payload : x);
      if (action.type === `DELETE_${model}`) return state.filter((x) => x.id !== action.payload.id);
      return state;
    };
  };

```

Note that the action types here don't quite follow the typical redux naming
convention; instead of `GET_USERS` we have `GET_users`. This allows us to use
the same variable to build the api url as we use to dispatch state changes.
Pretty cool, huh?

Also note that every generic reducer returns an empty array by default.

This method will be useful if you want to generate a one-off generic reducer for
a particular model. Just:

    const stoneCutterReducer = GS.generateReducer(stoneCutters)

Then add it to the `combineReducers` function provided by redux.

    const reducer = combineReducers({ stoneCutterReducer, ...GS.reducerBody })

This is also where you would pass in a custom reducer built for a thunk not
provided by the General Store. Say you want data in the form of a string or
object in your redux store (remember, the General Store holds everything as
arrays). Build your own reducer for that model and pass it into
`combineReducers` like in the example above.

- `GS.generateReducerBody(models)`

This method is used when the GS object is created. It calls `generateReducer` on
each model that was passed in when the GS object was created and returns an
object which is a collection of those reducers. It is typically passed into the
redux `combineReducers` function like so:

    const reducer = combineReducers({ GS.reducerBody})

That's the entire GS object, three properties and six methods. That's all it
takes to build an entire redux store regardless of how many data models are
required. However, the results you get using the General Store will largely
depend on how your RESTful API is set up. To that end, here are some...

## Typical API Routes

Here is a typical GET route that returns all rows of a given table:

```
app.get('/api/:model', async (req, res, next) => {
  try {
    let tableName = req.params.model;
    const regExp = /[A-Z]/;
    if (regExp.test(tableName)) tableName = `"${tableName}"`;
    const response = await db.query(`SELECT * FROM ${tableName} ;`);
    res.send(response[0]);
  } catch (error) {
    next(error);
  }
});
```

This route is used to retrieve data from any table whose name is passed in
through the url, accessed via `req.params.model`. We are using a postgresql
database here, which requires us to either only have table names with all
lowercase letters _or_ account for this by surrounding those table names with
quotes. We have also opted for a raw SQL query instead of using the sequelize
`Model.findall()` method because transmuting the model names passed in into
their singular, uppercased forms is harder than just using a regex test and a
raw `db.query()`. This method follows the generic style of The Redux General
Store, but it's veering sharply away from the RESTful API paradigm, which is not
necessary to do at all.

You can (and probably should) write traditional RESTful API routes like this:

```
app.put('/api/users', async (req, res, next) => {
  try {
    const userToUpdate = await User.findByPk(req.body.identifier.id);
    const data = req.body.data;
    const response = await userToUpdate.update(data);
    res.send(response);
  } catch (error) {
    next(error);
  }
});
```

The Redux General Store passes the identifier (here, the Primary Key) and the
updated data as separate objects in a PUT route. They are accessed via
`req.body.data` and `req.body.identifier`.

And just to round out our CRUD suite:

```
app.post('/api/users', async (req, res, next) => {
  try {
    const data = req.body;
    const response = await User.create(data);
    res.send(response);
  } catch (error) {
    next(error);
  }
});
```

```
app.delete('/api/users', async (req, res, next) => {
  try {
    const doomedUser = await User.findByPk(req.body.id);
    await doomedUser.destroy();
    res.send(doomedUser);
  } catch (error) {
    next(error);
  }
});
```

## React Implementation

In a react component, you won't be able to import your thunks individually
because they are all on the GS object. So just import the GS object and access
them from there!

    import store, { GS } from '../store';

Your mapDispatchToProps method will look only slightly different because of the
extra arguments required:

```
const mapDispatchToProps = (dispatch) => {
  return {
    genericGet: (route, model) => dispatch(GS.genericGet(route, model)),
    genericPost: (route, model, data) => dispatch(GS.genericPost(route, model, data)),
    genericPut: (route, model, data, identifier) => dispatch(GS.genericPut(route, model, data, identifier)),
    genericDelete: (route, model, identifier) => dispatch(GS.genericDelete(route, model, identifier)),
  };
};

```

At this point you are ready to use these methods in your react component. Stay
tuned for demonstrations of other implementations!

-LK
